# License-Plate-Recognition
### Abstract
The License Plate Recognition (LPR) system is designed to detect, extract and to recognize the license plate number of a vehicle. This system makes a heavy use of MATLAB’s image processing functions in detection of license plate, extracting the license plate from the image and then processing the extracted plate for character processing and character recognition using segmentation methodology. The objective of LPR was to explore and implement an efficient way to automate vehicle registration extraction for law enforcement agencies. The LPR system first captures the image of the vehicle, it then extracts the Region Of Interest (ROI) i.e. the license plate and then uses image segmentation to separate and extract characters for further processing.

### Results
The results of the License Plate Recognition program were better than expected. For most vehicle pictures with clear large visible license plates, the program was able to segment and read the characters with no problem. That being said there were some limitations with the code, mainly with recognizing the characters in the license plate. This mainly drilled down to the fact that there is no standardized font for license plates. The following section will go into depth about the limitations of the License Plate Recognition program.

### Limitations
Images where the license plate is far away or small, also tend to have issues with the license plate recognition program. The license plate itself is found and separated from the rest of the image without any problem. But when the image is converted from grayscale to binary, if the license plate is too small, the characters begin to blend in and connect with the borders of the license plate or are too thin to be read properly. Because of these issues, during segmentation, the character indexes cannot be found as the characters y-width do not match. Another limitation found was with images that had bright reflections and silver or white cars. The way the license plate extraction works is by filtering out any part of the image that falls below the average intensity of the image. When the car is white or silver, the overall intensity of the image is much higher. Thus, when the lower intensities are removed from the image, if the license plate happens to be dimmer, it can be removed. Then when the program searches for the license plate, it ends up extracting the wrong image, causing a failure when attempting to extract the license plate characters.
